OK, so at this point in the edit, quite a few of the Selex have been made, but honestly, this is
a pretty big project.
So I've been categorizing everything.
But right now, we're working with two new sequences here, raw footage, too, in raw footage one.
And as you can see, I mean, there's a lot of raw footage in here.
This is like two hours.
So what I've done is dragged all these clips in here.
And as you can see, we've done the colouring process so that we have an idea of the shots from different
sequences.
Now, this is a rough ordering of what the layout of the vlog is going to be.
We have the beginning here beginning before shots of the office.
We have some of the items that I bought, all the Amazon purchases and boxes.
We have the different phases of creating the office.
Right.
And then we have the office starting to come together, starting to fine tune the look of the office,
putting in shelves, painting the wall, all that good stuff.
And basically, I'm going to go through here.
I'm going to let the camera roll on and let the screen capture continue.
And basically, once all these Selex are pulled, we're going to assemble our rough edit and then drop
in our voice over.
That's really going to be the driving force behind the story and really explaining what's going on in
the footage.
So I'm going to continue to pull these Selex.
And at any moments did pop up that are important.
I'll stop and we'll talk about it.
So a lot of the times when you have visual shots that you're putting together for a montage, you know,
you're going to have the moment where you hit record, you're setting up your shot, your camera, your
focus, your settings, and then it's actually the shots going to start.
So when we're scrubbing through our clips, whenever we're editing, we want to look for that moment
where the beginning of our shot happens.
So I can see kind of jostling moving and came around and then right about there.
So we're going to cut in right there is where the smooth shot begins.
So a little scrub forward and right about there before it goes out of focus is where it ends.
And this we don't need and a lot of times as well, you do a shot more than once.
And I talk about this in the cinematography course where you want to have as many options as possible.
So if you have one type of shot, you want to shoot that shot twice.
So I come in pan to the left to show the state of the room before we begin the renovations for the YouTube
studio or the film studio.
And then I do that same shot and I pan to the right.
So we're going to grab that and we're going to continue to scrub forward.
Now, I know this is not the most interesting viral at the moment.
It's a blank slate.
It's a blank room with nothing on the walls.
But bear with me.
We're going to start getting to the interesting footage very soon.
Something else I want to mention is out of context.
These shots don't currently make a whole lot of sense, but because you are the one who's putting together
your masterpiece, you know, the context and the content and what the story is that's being told.
So as you're making your cuts, you are really making connections.
We know that we're going to connect these shots before the renovations to the shots, after the renovations.
So we're gathering pieces to the puzzle to tell that story.
And the context that we're putting these shots in is really what tells that story.
So to the average person who doesn't understand the project you're creating, things really aren't going
to make sense during this phase.
A lot of the time, it's kind of like seeing a painting or drawing or whatever it is when you've only
seen the sketch and you haven't seen the final product yet.
And because the final product resides in your mind, right.
In your thoughts, in your creativity, what you're actually doing in this process is like a sculptor
carving a granite block.
You're chipping away the layers and revealing the sculpture that's underneath the stone.
Right.
There were philosophical there for you.
Now, most of the time, we are planning ahead of the shots we're going to use and we have an idea of
where we're going to be putting those shots.
Now, here's a perfect example of a clip that I have that I'm going to hold on to it, because I really
feel like this will be a cool, kind of unique moment where I can really come in with the voiceover
and talk about the planning phase.
Right.
The starting with a blank slate phase and not knowing what to do.
This is also a really cool shot to keep in your back pocket that you can add text in these blank spaces.
So kind of piggybacking off what we were just talking about, about having the idea for the edit here,
but keeping an open mind and keeping an eye out for shots that the average person would see and throw
it away discarded.
But because a good editor can always turn bad footage into a great edit and a bad editor sadly can turn
great footage into a bad.
And it's so we want to hold on to stuff like this and really see what we can do with it later in the
editing.